feat(perf-issues): Performance Issues EA documentation (#5516)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/issues/performance-issues/n-one-queries.mdx

- the parent span. This can be a view, a serializer, or another span that logically groups the queries
- the source span. This is the query that caused the N+1 queries
- the repeating span. This is the "N" of "N+1 queries". This is the looped query that should have been part of the source

![N+1 Query span evidence](span-evidence.png)

## Example

Consider a book review website. It has two ORM models: `Book` and `Author`, each with a corresponding database table. The website shows a list of ten oldest books and their respective authors. The code might look like this:

```python
from django.http import HttpResponse

def books(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()[:10]
    book_list = [book.title + " by " + book.author.name for book in books]
    return HttpResponse((", ").join(book_list))
```

This code has a subtle performance problem. Each call to `book.author.name` makes a query to fetch the book's author! In total, this code makes 11 queries: one query to fetch the list of books, and 10 more queries to fetch the author of each book. This results in a characteristic query span waterfall:

![N+1 queries in an example application](n-plus-one-database-queries-in-booker.png)

> In order to fix this issue, you could use the `selected_related` method in Django, like so:

Reviewer: I read about using prefetch related as well to help solve N+1
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31237042/whats-the-difference-between-select-related-and-prefetch-related-in-django-orm

tbh, i'm not super familiar with Django, so I'm not proposing any change to docs, but perhaps something to consider.

Author: Noted, thanks!

---
title: "N+1 Queries"
sidebar_order: 10
description: "Learn more about N+1 queries and how to diagnose and fix them."
---

<Include name="early-adopter-note.mdx" />

> ## N+1 Queries

Reviewer 2: Don't need to repeat the title in a heading
```suggestion
```

> 
> "N+1 Queries" is a performance problem where the application makes database queries in a loop, instead of making a single query that returns all the information at once. Each database connection has some amount of performance overhead, so querying the database in a loop can be many times slower than doing it just once. This problem often occurs when using an Object-relational mapping (ORM) tool in web frameworks like Django or Ruby on Rails.

Reviewer 2: Trying to avoid the plural/singular issue in the first sentence by making query singular
Attempting to simplify the language in the second sentence - hopefully I haven't changed the meaning. If I have then ignore that change.

```suggestion
An _N+1 query_ is a performance problem in which the application makes database queries in a loop, instead of making a single query that returns all the information at once. Each database connection takes some amount of time, so querying the database in a loop can be many times slower than doing it just once. This problem often occurs when you use an object-relational mapping (ORM) tool in web frameworks like Django or Ruby on Rails.
```

Author: Applied this change, _except_ I kept it as "N+1 Queries are a performance problem" for consistency

## Span Evidence

> The evidence for a N+1 queries has four main aspects:

Reviewer 2: Are you talking about in general or in the context of the performance issue detail? If the latter, then change this to "N+1 query issue"

```suggestion
The evidence for an N+1 query has four main aspects:
```

Author: Changed to "The evidence for an N+1 queries problem has..." for consistency!

> - the transaction name
> - the parent span. This can be a view, a serializer, or another span that logically groups the queries
> - the source span. This is the query that caused the N+1 queries
> - the repeating span. This is the "N" of "N+1 queries". This is the looped query that should have been part of the source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Transaction name
- Parent span -  This can be a view, a serializer, or another span that logically groups the queries.
- Source span - This is the query that caused the N+1 queries.
- Repeating span - This is the "N" of N+1 queries. This is the looped query that should have been part of the source.
```

![N+1 Query span evidence](n-plus-one-span-evidence.png)

## Example

> Consider a book review website. It has two ORM models: `Book` and `Author`, each with a corresponding database table. The website shows a list of ten oldest books and their respective authors. The code might look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider a book review website. It has two ORM models, `Book` and `Author`, each with a corresponding database table. The website shows a list of the ten oldest books and their respective authors. The code might look like this:
```

```python
from django.http import HttpResponse

def books(request):
    books = Book.objects.all()[:10]
    book_list = [book.title + " by " + book.author.name for book in books]
    return HttpResponse((", ").join(book_list))
```

> This code has a subtle performance problem. Each call to `book.author.name` makes a query to fetch the book's author! In total, this code makes 11 queries: one query to fetch the list of books, and 10 more queries to fetch the author of each book. This results in a characteristic query span waterfall:

Reviewer 2: No exclamation points in docs ;-)

```suggestion
This code has a subtle performance problem. Each call to `book.author.name` makes a query to fetch the book's author. In total, this code makes 11 queries: one query to fetch the list of books, and 10 more queries to fetch the author of each book. This results in a characteristic query span waterfall:
```

![N+1 queries in an example application](n-plus-one-queries-before.png)

> In order to fix this issue, you could use the `selected_related` method in Django, like so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to fix this performance issue, you could use the `selected_related` method in Django, like so:
```
